as associate dean, as far as you recall? Yes. I
don't remember it being assistant dean. I believe
it was associate dean. And that was only for part
time because the other part of his assignment, he,
I believe, was a faculty member in petroleum
engineering. He wrote most of the grant proposals
coming out of the dean's office at that time. We did
not have a research foundation, as most of us know
the research foundation here at A&M today. We had a
small office that helped with some of the
paperwork of grant writing. But Dr. Winerdi was
very much into proposal writing to try to receive
additional federal funds for various issues on
campus and initiatives that were undergoing at
that time. And it was very successful. Some of the
staff was intimidated by him because he was high
profile, fast worker, and had high expectations
for the staff. Some found it very stressful to work
under him. I enjoyed it. I loved the challenge. He
had come from Penn State, I think. Did Benson hire
him or did Calhoun? No, Benson actually, well, I'm
not sure that I know the answer to that. I don't know
that. I know that he had been a doctoral student of
Calhoun's. Up there. Right. So I don't really know
which one actually hired him. As far as you know,
was he hired... When he arrived on the campus, was
he hired in the dean's office? No, he was hired as a
faculty member, I believe, and then part-time in
the dean's office, yes. Who was at the college
level in those years, who was the student advisor
counselor, the job that Ramsdell would have
later? McGuire was the advisor for the students.
Yes, usually what we saw was the top students, the
president of the student body, I mean the student
insurance council, president of Tall Beta Pi. We
saw the upper end of the students and then we saw the
probation students more than anything, but we'd
have the other students in between. Let me go back
to Dr. Winerdi for just a moment. Oh, please do. The
Texas Engineering Experiment Station was being
established. And one of Dr. Winerdi's titles was,
I believe, Assistant Director of the Texas
Engineering Experiment Station. And, of course,
he just office... in the dean's office as part of
his associate dean but also very much from the
experiment station side and that's why he was so
heavily involved in writing proposals and trying
to get his center for activation analysis off the
ground when we were working in that area. So that
was part of his duties. As far as you were aware in
that era, what was the status, reputation,
quality of the engineering program at Texas A&M
compared to other schools? Well, there were
certain departments that were well respected.
Petroleum engineering was one of the top in the
50s, and of course still is today at Texas A&M. We
had a few master's programs. I'm not sure that we
had any doctoral programs in the 50s. If we did, it
was very limited. And I know that Mr. Benson was
very anxious to see more doctoral programs
established within engineering. And he worked
hard at, I believe, He was working on proposals for
the doctor of engineering and some of the other
engineering programs at that time. But we had few
that were established. Industrial engineering
was a well-respected department at that time. And
of course, industry hired students graduating
from the College of Engineering had no problem
receiving job offers and usually multiple job
offers. And that was in almost any discipline.
Now, were there any programs that, as far as you all
knew, were kind of marginal then in engineering? I
wasn't aware of it. That was not part of my job
assignment, so if there were marginal, I might not
have known that. Aerospace was ranked very high at
that time, still because of... Post-war things,
there was still a lot of need for aerospace
engineers. Geology and geophysics students were
receiving more offers than they could handle, and
certainly those that double majored with
petroleum engineering. And in every field, the
job market seemed to be good, didn't it? Yes,
mechanical, electrical. Nuclear engineering
was coming into being, and they had hired John
Randall to come in here and build up the nuclear
engineering department. So there wasn't nearly
as large a faculty there in nuclear engineering as
there were later, in later years. And engineering
buildings and facilities were northeast of the
academic building? They were off of University
Avenue and Texas Avenue, yes. All on the main side
of the campus, correct. The department heads, who
were some that you remember during that era? Well,
I remember Mr. Whiting. I guess he was head of
petroleum engineering even when Don was here,
because I remember Mr. Whiting. Dr. Semang was
head of mechanical engineering.
Dr. Jones might have been head of electrical
engineering, but I'm not sure that he was in the
50s. He was later. I can't remember that. Were
there any... Mr. Burgess in industrial
engineering. Dr. Burgess in industrial
engineering. Aerospace, I can't remember.
Geology... and geophysics were under
engineering at that time, and I can't remember who
was head of that. It was not a college of geoscience
at that time. Were there any faculty member and or
department heads that y'all had to handle with kid
gloves? Well, I'm sure there were, but I didn't
know who they were. Mr. Vincent kept that from us,
so we All right, back to being a student wife. So you
would leave for work 7.30 or so. Where was parking?
It wasn't too far from the building because
parking was not a problem on campus at that time. A
lot of people walked to campus from... Were there
parking stickers? I don't remember any. I got here
in 59. I don't remember any parking stickers. I
don't remember that as being problematic at all.
Where did a student wife shop? Well, there was... I
first started, shopped at what was called Wine
Gardens in Varine. Wine Gardens was here then? I
think it was called Wine Gardens. And then Early
Bird Shopping Center on Texas Avenue.
I came in and there was a grocery store, I'm not sure
what the name of it was, might have been Orr's. And
those two were, and there was an A&P downtown brine
I shopped. I remember having to do that. You
usually went once a week to downtown brine to buy
your groceries and your meats. And we carefully
budgeted. We tried never to spend more than $25 a
week on groceries. And out here near the campus,
there was nothing you could buy much beyond what a
convenience store today would have. Is that
right? There was a little bitty place at South Gate
when we got here. We could buy bread and milk. But I
guess I never shopped there because I think the
only thing that I shopped was A&P and the Overs and
Wine Gardens when it came in. And where did you go to
shop for clothing for anybody? downtown Bryan,
and there was a JCPenney's. There was fabric
stores, and we made a lot of our own clothing,
particularly mine.
There was a men's clothing store. There was a
Lester's, but we were careful when we shopped at
Lester's, had to shop the sales because we
couldn't afford the clothing.
I don't remember any other names that we
particularly shopped at. And if you all were going
to go out to eat, how often did you do so? Oh, no more
than once a month. We usually didn't go out. We
might get together with friends and do a cookout,
save our money, buy some steaks, put them on the
grill, make homemade ice cream, but we saved our
money to buy those steaks. I can remember them.
extremely interesting incident in which we saved
our money to buy steaks and Dr. Jack Little who's
just retired as president of Shell was a good
friend of ours and his wife and they lived in an
upstairs garage apartment down in Bryan. We saved
money to buy steaks and the guys didn't get in to
cook the steaks as early as we thought they should
so Carolyn and I set up the cookers and got the fire
going and got the stakes on ourselves and set it up
on the driveway. And for some odd reason, we
thought we needed to move the cooker. And when we
did, the legs were not fastened as well as they
should. And the stakes went over into the gravel.
And so since we had saved her money all month to buy
them, we took them upstairs, washed them and put
them back on the grill. They were a little gritty.
but we ate them anyway. We've laughed about that
story many times, but it's true. At that special
meal, what else was there other than steak? Oh,
just green salad and a baked potato, and we'd make
our own dessert, maybe usually a chocolate cake.
And what kind of refreshments? Tea. Iced tea.
Yeah. Iced tea. How often did, in College View, how
often did student couples drink beer? Well, if you
had any money left over at the end of the month, you
might, on a Friday night or a Saturday night, ice
down a few beers and drink them, but didn't have
time to drink much beer. Do you remember anybody
having a problem with drunkenness, any of the
student, over in the student area? No, if there
were problems, I wasn't aware of them. And what
about noise, record players or radios or TVs? We
didn't have any stereos. We had radio and TV. We
didn't own a TV. And our neighbor owned a TV, and
they lived... We just opened our front doors. We
took the newspaper. They didn't have a newspaper,
so we made a deal. They read our newspaper, and we'd
watch the news on their TV. And we might have had one
or two neighbors that their radio got a little
loud, but other than that, we didn't have any
problems. Were the windows screened? The windows
were screened. Yes, that is correct. They were.
But front doors were sometimes left open? Oh,
yeah. We just left them open because it was so hot.
And did anybody ever have any trouble with theft,
burglary? No. We probably didn't even lock our
cars at night. When you came to the campus in the
daytime, did you lock your door at your apartment?
We probably did, yes. But we didn't worry about it.
Were you all churchgoers then? Yes, we were. There
was First Christian Church in College Station
that's now an interdenominational church on
Welborn Road. Where was it then? Where was it
located then? On Welborn Road. And we went to
church there. Mainly it was convenient. There was
a first Christian church down in Bryan, but this
one was much more convenient. And a lot of the young
people went out here and they had a student pastor
that would come from TCU each week to be the pastor
there. And that's where we went while we were in
school. How big was it, members reckon? Probably
no more than 100 people ever. 75 a Sunday usually,
and they had a pretty good little Sunday school
class for all the different ages. And I remember we
went to the adult class and we took our child to the
children's nursery. Yeah, was Screamin' Al
Nelson a part of that group, history faculty
member? Yes, he was. And the chemistry professor
that would jump out the window, I'm trying to
remember his name,
Jump out the window of the church? No, of the
chemistry department. The chemistry department
windows are almost ground level, and he would jump
out the window and go around and then throw in a test
through the transom up over the top of the door. I'm
trying to remember his name also. Who else were
some leaders of that congregation that you
remember?
B.J. Adams and his wife attended there some. And
they still live in the community today and are at
First Christian in Bryan. And you all were regular
attenders. Did you go other than Sunday morning?
No. I think that was the only service, as a matter of
fact, because we had a student pastor most of the
time. No, we just went on Sundays. All right, and
then if y'all were going to relax, and I've got the
word recreation here, what did a young couple do to
relax? You got together with friends and cooked a
meal. That was about the extent of your
recreation. And you might take in a movie once a
month. There were a few drive-in movies here at
that time. And so in the summer, we might take in a
drive-in movie. Did y'all go to gun and haul
movies? No, we didn't. The campus theater? Campus
theater. Do you remember any special movies that
were special? Probably the movie Giant came out in
the 50s and we went to that. That was the big movie of
the 50s. How often did you go back to Breckenridge?
Oh, we only went on holidays. We had to have more
than a day. We would probably go Thanksgiving,
Christmas.
That was probably the extent of our going back to
Breckenridge. My father died in November of 57,
and so I really had very little family left there
after he died. I'm not sure we went too often. I'd go
see my sister and brother, usually at
Christmastime. Do you remember any special
Christmas gifts during those student years that
either you received or gave? No, not really. No.
For graduation, Don's parents came from New York
and gave him a portable black and white TV, and that
was the first TV that we ever owned in May of 1960. So
that was kind of a special gift. We thought we had
really moved up into the technology field. And how
did you all communicate with loved ones then that
lived somewhere else? Well, we did have a
telephone. Everyone in College View didn't have a
phone, but we had a telephone from the time we moved
in. And so we did make a few phone calls, and then we
would write cards, handwritten cards. And that
was how we communicated. See, think how special it
would be if people had kept those. Think what a
story could be told from those letters and so
forth. Let's see, and during your student years
here, there weren't any fires or tornadoes or
there weren't any debacles like that, were there?
Well, Carla came through. Oh, really? Describe
that. Really how anyway it affected us was some
people from the coast came in and needed housing,
and so anyone that had any extra rooms, we
volunteered our bedrooms and things for that. Did
you all do that? No, we had children. We had Don at
that time, and so we didn't do that. Did some of the
others in College View do that? Yeah, they had
space. They did do that. All right. Under
recreation, describe going to your first
football games at Texas A&M. Well, I can remember
that how hot it was. There were lots of afternoon
games. And it was so extremely hot. We were not used
to the humidity. It's not nearly as humid in West
Texas as it is here. And I can remember how
extremely hot and buying ice was a real treat
because that was what you did to survive it. How did
y'all learn about the traditions?
Unless Don went through them in orientation, I'm
not sure how we did learn about traditions. You did
stand up at the football games? Oh, yes. You stand
up at the football games. Oh, yes. That was a very
important part of it. And did married couples kiss
after touchdowns? Oh, sure. Yes, yes. Stayed true
to those traditions. And did you all go to midnight
Yale practice? No, we never went to midnight Yale
practice. Did you go to Silver Taps? No, we didn't.
Muster? Yes, we went to Muster when it was held on
campus, yes. And I don't remember, I guess it was
held in Guyne Hall, but we didn't go out of town to
any Muster ceremonies. But do you remember, did
Muster make any impression on you at that? No,
because we didn't know any of the people who had
passed away. It made the impression it was a
memorial, but we didn't know the people, so you
weren't as involved. What about Bonfire? Yes, we
went to some bonfires. We did go to bonfires, and it
was just like a stack of wood being burnt, but
nothing what you'd expect bonfire to be today, not
nearly as rowdy. It was just a ceremony and yell
practice. Did the married students get involved
working on bonfires as far as you knew? If they did,
I wasn't aware because my husband didn't have time
to do that, so we weren't involved in that. Now,
did... Did anybody ever, any student ever kind of
spoof the marriage students because they weren't
in the corps? Did anybody ever tease you or your
husband about that? Well, since he had been in
service, As a civilian, I think
they respected those that had already served some
time in the service and they left us alone pretty
much. What did you as a newcomer think about the
Corps? We just accepted it. The only thing that I
can remember thinking that I really resented the
most was that the uh... there were no women in the
classes uh... there were a few women in summer
classes and those were usually daughters of
faculty members but there were so few there and
many of them told us about some of the derogatory
remarks that were made towards women and so you had
to be pretty strong or you were intimidated to be in
that class and that they didn't think it was a place
for women and we felt We were as important as the
men. Did any student ever get hurt with you that you
remember? No.
If they did, I tried to put that, block that out. I
remember working on the first proposal for the
name change for Texas A&M for Mr. Benson. I don't
know whose idea. It started maybe within his
department or he just happened to be working on it,
but I remember the first time that I saw that there
was a proposal to change the name to a university
from Texas A&M. When was that? A&M College of Texas
would have been sometime Well, it had to be before
1960, because... Oh, so, really? Yes, so, you
know, it was a proposal, it was just a, it was
probably in a memo, but I remember typing it first.
And what would the name have been, as far as you
know? Texas A&M University. Oh, really? Yes. I
wish I could find some of that. I've never, you just
added something, I haven't heard about that.
Well, it was either in minutes that he talked about
it in a meeting, because it was something I typed
and they were talking about a name change for Texas
A&M. He talked about if he wanted it to be a
university, not a college, and of course part of
what he wanted was to see these graduate programs
developed and that was within the goals of those,
they were compatible goals, to see it become a
university. All right, let me sidetrack for a
second on that. Wayne Hall, who would later be vice
president of academic affairs, said that in the
early 60s, when yours truly was the author of the
Aspirations Report, that of all the
recommendations we made, he said the one that
bugged Mr. Rutter the most, we recommend the name
be changed to Texas State University. That's what
they did in Oklahoma. That's what they had done in
Mississippi. A whole bunch of A&Ms became state.
And Mr. Rutter didn't want that. And that Wayne
Hall said that he's the one that suggested A with no
periods, an ampersand, don't spell it out A and D, M
in order to be kind of like a logo. and that Mr.
Rudder liked holding on to the A and M. I can't
remember the exact name, and there was no
discussion about the A not standing for anything,
no period, and the ampersand. That was not part of
the discussion. I do remember that. Because after
we left here and the name was changed, I knew that
there was not, I had not heard that before. But I
just remember that the word university was used on
the end of it, and they were discussing a name
change. Do you remember where the proposal
faltered, where it ended up? No, and I'm not sure I
was here to know the end of the story, so to speak. At
the time that you were working in the dean's
office, the vice president for academic affairs,
who did Benson report to?
Morgan had been president, and then he's... Well,
he would report it to Harrington, I believe. All
right, and then Harrington. He reported to Dr.
Harrington. I'm wondering if there was a vice
president then. See, I don't know that there was.
Did you have any action with Harrington? No. A lot
of his work was sent out for us, but I really didn't
have much interaction. He might call on the phone,
but to really know him and to be in any kind of
setting with him, I didn't know him. What did you
working people think of him? We were just asked to
do assignments, and we didn't really question
those. So you didn't see him, really? Well, he'd
come to see Mr. Benson occasionally, and Mr.
Benson usually went to his office, though, most of
the time he went there. And personality, how would
you describe his personality in those years? I
don't think I had an opinion, no. Did you all ever
see Mrs. Harrington? No, I didn't know his
heritage. We saw, we knew Mrs. Angel because we had
some MSC programs, Bridge Club, and some of their
wives were our teachers for, and it was free, of
course. You could come to MSC and play bridge.
While our husbands were studying, we'd come to
campus and people like Mrs. Harrington and Mrs.
Angel and Ms. Crawford and Mrs. Whiting would be
the teachers and sponsors of the Bridge Club or
some of the student organizations like Petroleum
Engineering Wives Club. That was where a lot of our
friendships were made. And did you learn to play
bridge at that point? I played bridge, but I was
never a really good bridge player. Is that where
you learned? Yes. You hadn't played bridge
before? No, no. What were the other student life
activity opportunities other than the bridge?
Just Petroleum Engineering Wives Club. That was
pretty much our social life. Was there a once a
month social event for student lives? We probably
met as much as once a month, yes, but that's about
it. Were you and your husband aware of a guy named
Wayne Stark? Yes, I was, yes. I knew who he was
because when I worked at the placement office, I
knew who Wayne Stark was, yes. But we had little
interaction with him. And did y'all ever see Bear
Bryant? What was the impression you students had
of Bear Bryant? Well, of course, if you loved
football, you loved Bear Bryant. And I guess we
expected football to be a tough sport, and it
certainly was under Bear Bryant. He was really
tough on his players. We knew that. Were there any
athletes in classes with your husband? Yes, in
business.
His protege that went to Alabama with him.
Stallings? Stallings was in Don's business
classes with him at that time. Well, and Drake
Keith. And Drake Keith. And I knew Bobby Drake
Keith. He's from Breckenridge, Texas. Describe.
Bobby Drake Keith. Yeah, yeah. And he and his wife
lived in College View after he married. But he was a
good football player in high school. And then, of
course, he came and played football here and
played under him. And I think he majored in... He
was an engineer, but I can't remember whether he
was in petroleum engineering. He was? Okay, so I
believe he was the head of Don one year in class.
Because he graduated in four years also. Yes, he
did. And did you know Margaret, his wife? Yes, I
did, and she was a teacher, if I'm correct. She was a
music major. Okay, I couldn't remember what.
Violin. Okay. They lived in College View? Yes,
after they married. He came single, but he married
Margaret, and they lived in College View, yes.
Because one summer, he and Drake Keith were
working on a rig near Monahans. And that was where
her father was stationed. He worked for an oil
company. And she was a Texas Tech music major. And
that's where Drake and Margaret met. Because when
he came back as assistant coach, he and Margaret
were in the Sunday school class I taught. Is that
right? That's right. He's just retired as head of
what used to be Arkansas Power and Light. It's now
Entergy Arkansas, but he's just retired. And in
high school, he was really a loved student, really
good student, well-liked, very popular. And when
y'all were students, was there any rumor about
some of the athletes getting easy courses,
special grades? Were there any stories of that
sort then? At A&M?
I wasn't aware of it because I wasn't that involved
with athletics. Were y'all aware of any student
pranks? Oh, sure. We knew things like that took
place. Do you remember any specific ones?
None that I think I want to record.
Okay, all right. See, now that line can go
anywhere. Okay. None that I want to record. Did any
students ever attempt any pranks or anything
relating to the dean's office? No, Mr. Benson ran a
pretty tough ship and I think they knew that. I
don't think they were about to cross Mr. Benson. I
would have been surprised if there was. Do you know
of any important proposals that Benson sent
forward that became fact? Some changes that were
made during that? Did he get some of those doctoral
programs going? Well, I don't know if they got
completely implemented during that time. I do
know they were proposed. And then the Center for
Activation Analysis, the Nuclear Engineering
Department was certainly strengthened. I'm not
sure it was even a department at that time. And he
brought in faculty to do those things. And then he
got a research foundation going. And, of course,
TEAS, the Texas Engineering Experiment Station,
just exploded in years later. He worked with the
Highway Department through TTI, of course, and a
lot of those things have his blueprint on them.
What did you all think his status on the campus was?
How did he rank? Oh, he was the top administrator on
campus. His word was good. Was engineering the
largest then in enrollment? I suspect it was. I'm
really not sure of that. We didn't have a school of
business at that time. It was simply a program.
Geology and geophysics were still under
engineering, so there wasn't a College of
Geoscience.
Arts and Sciences were together. The College of
Education was later. It was in A&S. Yes, it was in
Arts and Sciences. And in the dean's meetings, Mr.
Benson held his own, yes. As far as you know, how
often did the deans meet? To my knowledge, they
only met once or twice a month as a dean's group. And
I'm not sure who the chair was. I assume it was Mr.
Harrington, but I really don't know because I was
not privy to those meetings and I didn't sit in
them. Were you aware ever, at the working level,
were you all aware of anybody ever trying from the
outside to pull a string to a board member, a
legislator, or anything like that, trying to
manipulate anything? Well, no, I wouldn't.